We'll start off with a quick overview of Wayne technologies and the various encapsulation that could
be used across a when.
And then we're going to look at the features and functionality of both HDFC and PDP.
And as always I'm going to show you multiple demonstrations of these encapsulation as a when or wide
area network connects devices separated by large geographical areas so you may have an office in New
York in the US and an office in London in the United Kingdom.
And you would use a point to point a serial link as an example to provide a dedicated permanent point
to point connection between those two sites a point to point or serial link also called a leased line
provides a dedicated connection between two sites.
So it's a point to point connection between the New York office and London office.
This uses a service provider network to provide the connection from one site to another.
So unlike Ethernet on the local area network which is owned by the company the infrastructure used to
connect these sites is owned by a provider which could be AT&T in the US or British Telecom or Beatty
in the UK for example the concept here is that devices are far apart from each other.
So as an example you could have an office in San Francisco in Houston in London and in Tokyo these offices
are far apart from each other and it's not possible to use an infinite cable such as cat 5 or CAT 6
cabling to connect those sites together because they're too far apart so local area connection would
be used on premise at the customer's site but then the local area network would be connected to the
when and the encapsulation or layer to technology changes from Ethernet to for instance HDFC or BPP
now.
Today a lot of point to point at least lines or serial connections have been replaced by virtual private
networks or VPN ones where the connection is made across the Internet.
It's a lot cheaper to set up a VPN across a DSL connection than it is to lease a leased line or use
a serial point to point connection.
The reason why it's called a least a line is you are leasing a cable or connection or line between sites.
So hence the term leased line also called a serial connection also called a point to point connection.
So we are no longer talking about lands or local area networks we're talking about ones where we connecting
these sites or offices in different parts of the world so that they can communicate with each other.
A When is often represented as a cloud connecting multiple sites together.
The reason for the use of the cloud is that the enterprise is not concerned with what's happening within
the service provider network.
That is someone else's domain or someone else's problem.
The Enterprise is simply sending traffic from the San Francisco office to the service provider and somehow
it appears in London or in Tokyo as an example.